> For the complete documentation index, see [llms.txt](https://docs.onvesper.com/platform-knowledge-base/llms.txt). Markdown versions of documentation pages are available by appending `.md` to page URLs; this page is available as [Markdown](https://docs.onvesper.com/platform-knowledge-base/dve/batch-video-upload-via-ui/uploading-batch-vods/prepare-your-video-assets.md).

# Prepare your video assets

Your videos will need to be populated into a CSV file format and include specific fields. See below a list of the fields and a brief explanation of what they are. You'll need to include the mandatory fields within your CSV file.

You'll find a downloadable CSV template within the Vesper VOD UI. If you're ready, proceed to the next section to 'Upload your batch'.

***

### Mandatory video fields <a href="#mandatory-video-fields" id="mandatory-video-fields"></a>

| COLUMN NAME    | DESCRIPTION                                                                                | FORMAT | EXAMPLE                                                   | NOTES                                          |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| **externalId** | An external unique ID for the video asset                                                  | String | `myId123`                                                 | Max. 255 characters inc. spaces                |
| **title**      | The title of the video asset in default language                                           | String | `My New Video`                                            | Max. 255 characters inc. spaces                |
| **s3Region**   | S3 bucket region for all S3 file references on that row                                    | String | `eu-west-1`                                               | Mandatory if any resource is using S3 protocol |
| **video**      | File reference for the video mezzanine file. Either S3, HTTPS/HTTP or local file reference | String | `s3://my-external-bucket/file.mp4` or `my_local_file.mp4` |                                                |

### &#x20;Optional video fields <a href="#mandatory-video-fields" id="mandatory-video-fields"></a>

<table><thead><tr><th width="218">COLUMN NAME</th><th width="132">DESCRIPTION</th><th width="249.71484375">FORMAT</th><th width="431.9765625">EXAMPLE</th><th>NOTES</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>description</strong></td><td>The description of the video asset in default language</td><td>String</td><td><code>My New Video Description</code></td><td>Max. 4096 characters inc. spaces</td></tr><tr><td><strong>longDescription</strong></td><td>The long description of the video asset in default language</td><td>String</td><td><code>My New Long Video Description</code></td><td>Max. 8192 characters inc. spaces</td></tr><tr><td><strong>language</strong></td><td>Overrides the default language of the batch. Language code for the title/description/audio/subtitle columns with no language code. </td><td>String-String</td><td><code>en-US</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>published</strong></td><td>Mark as published</td><td>Boolean</td><td><code>true</code></td><td>If this column is left blank or not included at all, then the VOD will default to a 'Draft' status in Vesper VOD</td></tr><tr><td><strong>cover</strong> </td><td>File reference of the cover image. Either S3, HTTPS/HTTP or local file reference</td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.jpg</code> or <code>my_local_file.jpg</code></td><td>Size spec: 1920x1080 &#x3C;1mb</td></tr><tr><td><strong>poster</strong></td><td>File reference of the poster image. Either S3, HTTPS/HTTP or local file reference</td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.jpg</code> or <code>my_local_file.jpg</code></td><td>Size spec: 1142x1600 &#x3C;1mb</td></tr><tr><td><strong>thumbnail</strong></td><td>File reference of the thumbnail image. Either S3, HTTPS/HTTP or local file reference</td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.jpg</code> or <code>my_local_file.jpg</code></td><td>Size spec: 1920x1080 &#x3C;1mb</td></tr><tr><td>titleLogo</td><td>File reference of the title image. Either S3, HTTPS/HTTP or local file reference</td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.jpg</code> or <code>my_local_file.</code></td><td>Size spec: 1920x1080 <br>&#x3C; 1mb</td></tr><tr><td><strong>tags</strong></td><td>Relevant keywords associated with the content for search, recommendations, licence and content management</td><td>String</td><td><code>horror,scream, film</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>typedTags</strong></td><td>Structured metadata for ads, search and future product evolvement. Written like <code>NAME|VALUE</code> pairs</td><td>String|String</td><td><code>Genre|Comedy,</code><br><code>Athlete|John Cena</code></td><td>Typed tags for your realm need to be created first in Vesper VOD. Please discuss with your CAM/PM/TAM</td></tr><tr><td><strong>countryContentRatings</strong></td><td>Comma separated list of <code>ISO 3166-1 alpha-2|RATING</code> pairs</td><td>String|String</td><td><code>GB|R,US|TV-MA</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>countryContentRating.rating.&#x3C;countryCode></strong></td><td>Rating of the asset</td><td>String</td><td> 12+</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>countryContentRating.ratingAuthority.&#x3C;countryCode></strong></td><td>Rating authority of the asset</td><td>String</td><td>MPAA</td><td>Optional. Requires rating to be present</td></tr><tr><td><strong>countryContentRating.ratingSystemType.&#x3C;countryCode></strong></td><td>Rating system type of the asset</td><td>String</td><td>Can have one of two values: <code>TV</code> or <code>MOVIES</code></td><td><p>Optional. Requires rating to be present.</p><p><br></p></td></tr><tr><td><strong>countryContentRating.descriptor.&#x3C;countryCode>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>Rating descriptor/reason</td><td>String</td><td>Free text, e.g: Mild Drug Use</td><td>Optional. Requires rating to be present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>audio</strong></td><td>The audio file for the video asset in the default language (the 'label' is made visible to users across the frontend apps)</td><td>String|String<br><code>audioUrl|label</code> </td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.wav|English</code></td><td>If there is more than one audio for the same language, then you can include as a comma separated list e.g. <code>https://audio.com/home.wav|Home Commentary,https://audio.com/away.wav|Away Commentary</code></td></tr><tr><td><strong>presetId</strong></td><td>Preset to be applied on the encoding</td><td>Integer</td><td><code>5</code></td><td>A requirement for download to go.<br><br>Any presetIDs for your realm need to be created in advance. Please discuss with your CAM/PM/TAM<br><br><mark style="color:orange;"><strong>Note:</strong> When using Dynamic Preset Selection, the Preset ID field has to be left empty as the collection of presets used for the dynamic presets is created and linked by Engineers in the backend.</mark></td></tr><tr><td><strong>dynamicPresetConfig.d2gStrategy</strong></td><td>Dictates whether a preset with Download To Go is required</td><td>String</td><td><code>high_medium_lownone</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>publishDate</strong></td><td>At the date specified in UTC (if in the future), the system will move the video from draft to published</td><td>Timestamp</td><td><code>YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>lastPublishedDate</strong></td><td>Latest published date for video</td><td>Timestamp</td><td><code>YYYY-MM-DDThh:</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>expiryDate</strong></td><td>At the date specified in UTC (if in the future), the system will move the video from published to draft</td><td>Timestamp</td><td><code>YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>subtitle</strong></td><td><p>Subtitle file for the default language (the 'label' and 'type' is for content managers, to reference when in Vesper VOD only)<br><br>Note: The 'type' differentiates between following possible values</p><p><em>regular</em>, <em>closed-captions</em>, <em>forced</em></p></td><td>String|String<br><code>subtitleFileUrl|label|type</code> </td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.srt|English|forced</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>annotations.&#x3C;timecode></strong> </td><td>Add annotations to the video asset (in milliseconds) so end-users can jump to a particular point of time in the video</td><td>String|String<br><code>thumbnailURL|caption</code></td><td><code>https://domain.com/image.jpeg|Trophy Lift</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>parentPlaylist</strong></td><td><p>The <a href="/pages/-LzNIJh8tg3RP1_CNj7I#external-id">external ID</a> of the playlist the video is a part of. It consists of a pair of <code>external-playlist-id|position</code> values. </p><p></p><p>The first position in a playlist is 1. </p></td><td>Integer|Integer</td><td><code>64729|1</code></td><td>Any playlists for your realm need to be created in advance using Vesper VOD. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>parentSeason</strong></td><td>The external id the season the video belongs to. It contains a value pair of <code>external-season-id|episode number value</code></td><td>String|Integer</td><td><code>mySeason123|4</code></td><td>Any seasons for your realm need to be created in advance using Vesper VOD. The first episode of a season should be labeled as episode 0.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>adInsertion.midRoll</strong></td><td>Pre-defined markers as places to play ads throughout the duration of the video</td><td>Float<br>A comma separated list of positions in seconds</td><td><code>10.0,30.9,60.3</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>ssaiConfig.providerName</strong></td><td>The provider used for SSAI on the video e.g. <code>YOSPACE</code></td><td>String</td><td><code>YOSPACE</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>ssaiConfig.parameters</strong></td><td>The parameters for the SSAI provider e.g. for the provider <code>YOSPACE</code> you can set the Context Id</td><td>String|String</td><td><code>contextId|id123</code></td><td>Can only be provided once you are onboarded with YoSpace for SSAI ads</td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking</strong></td><td>To add geo-blocking rules against the VOD asset</td><td>String|[String]</td><td><code>whitelist|[GB,US]</code>or <code>blacklist|[IT,ES,GB]</code></td><td>This field can't be used if other geoBlocking fields are present</td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.templateExids</strong></td><td>external identifiers of the geo blocking templates that should be applied to the video</td><td>String</td><td><p><code>gt_vod_123</code></p><p> or <code>gt_vod_123,gt_vod456</code></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.type</strong></td><td>the type of the additional geo blocking template</td><td>String</td><td><code>ALLOW</code></td><td>Permitted values:<br><br><code>ALLOW</code><br><code>BLOCK</code></td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.countries</strong></td><td>countries associated to the additional geo blocking template</td><td>String</td><td><code>GB,PT</code></td><td>country codes in the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2|RATING pairs</td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.postalCodes.countryCode</strong></td><td>country defined for the postal codes associated to the additional geo blocking template</td><td>String</td><td><code>US</code></td><td>country code in the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2|RATING pairs</td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.postalCodes</strong></td><td>postal codes associated to the additional geo blocking template</td><td>String</td><td><code>90210,90212</code></td><td>Only one between <code>geoBlocking.postalCodes</code> and <code>geoBlocking.postalCodesCsv</code> can be used for a video</td></tr><tr><td><strong>geoBlocking.postalCodesCsv</strong></td><td>file that contains the list of postal codes associated to the additional geo blocking template</td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/postalCodes.csv</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>delete</strong></td><td>Indicating if the video/row should be deleted </td><td>Boolean</td><td><code>true</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>skipMarkers</strong></td><td>Skip markers (skip intro or credits) can be added by specifying the skip marker start and stop times in milliseconds</td><td>String|String<br><code>SKIP_MARKER_TYPE|START_TIME_MS|STOP_TIME_MS</code></td><td><code>SKIP_INTRO|1000|6000</code> or <code>SKIP_INTRO|1000|6000,SKIP_CREDITS|12000|18000</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>watermarkExid</strong></td><td>epresent the watermark that should be linked to the video</td><td>String</td><td><code>wm_vod_gbH3dF</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>useCustomerWatermark</strong></td><td>indicate if the watermark linked to the customer should be used or ignored in the case that a watermark is not linked directly to the video</td><td>String</td><td><code>USE</code> or <code>IGNORE</code></td><td>If it’s missing the USE default value will be applied</td></tr><tr><td><strong>autoTranscription</strong></td><td>indicate during the encoding for the video content if should perform the auto transcription from the audio</td><td>Boolean</td><td></td><td>if not present or any invalid boolean value will be translated to <code>false</code></td></tr><tr><td><strong>translateSubtitles.sourceLanguage</strong></td><td>A language code to indicate the source language of the subtitle to be translated</td><td>String</td><td><code>en-GB</code></td><td>must be a valid ISO 3166-1 alpha-2_ISO 639-1 Code</td></tr><tr><td><strong>translateSubtitles.targetLanguages.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>Label description to be used on the translated subtitles for each target language</td><td>String</td><td><code>Legendas traduzidas para Português</code></td><td>When translateSubtitles.sourceLanguage is provided, at least one translateSubtitles.targetLanguages. must be defined.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.date.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>Release date for the schedule release</td><td>Timestamp</td><td><code>YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.type.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>Release type for the schedule release</td><td>String</td><td><code>GENERAL</code></td><td>Allowed values:<br><br><code>GENERAL</code><br><code>AUDIO</code><br><code>SUBTITLES</code><br><code>PREMIER</code><br><code>SUNSET</code></td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.audioLanguageCodes.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>audio languages for the schedule release</td><td>String</td><td><code>en-GB,pt-PT</code></td><td>List of language codes separated by comma in valid format ISO 3166-1 alpha-2_ISO 639-1 Code</td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.subtitleLanguageCodes.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>language codes separated by comma in valid format ISO 3166-1 alpha-2_ISO 639-1 Code</td><td>String</td><td><code>en-GB,pt-PT</code></td><td>List of language codes separated by comma in valid format ISO 3166-1 alpha-2_ISO 639-1 Code</td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.name.&#x3C;languageCode>.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>Name for the schedule release in a specific language</td><td>String</td><td><code>Release name in English</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.contentId.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>Content id to be associated to the schedule release</td><td>Numeric</td><td><code>123456</code></td><td>In case no value provided the schedule release will be updated without any content associated.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.countries.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>country codes for the schedule release</td><td>String</td><td><code>GB,PT</code></td><td>List of country codes separated by comma in valid format ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 Code.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.subdivisions.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>subdivisions codes for the schedule release</td><td>String</td><td><code>GB-ENG,PT-11,ES-EX</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>release.externalId.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>a custom identifier for the release</td><td>String</td><td><code>release_123</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.group.key.&#x3C;StringIdentifier>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>groups that can be linked to a participant</td><td>String</td><td><code>actor</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.name.&#x3C;numericIdentifier>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>the  name of the participant</td><td>String</td><td><code>Tom Holland</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.role.&#x3C;numericIdentifier>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>the role of the participant</td><td>String</td><td><code>Spiderman</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.group.&#x3C;numericIdentifier></strong></td><td>the group that the participant is part of it</td><td>String</td><td><code>Actor</code></td><td>To link the participant to a group the string identifier of the field <code>participant.group.key</code> must be used</td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.image.&#x3C;numericIdentifier>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>The image of the participant </td><td>String</td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/participant.jpg</code></td><td>If the image is missing a placeholder will be used</td></tr><tr><td><strong>participant.description.&#x3C;numericIdentifier>.&#x3C;languageCode></strong></td><td>the description of the participant</td><td>String</td><td><code>Tom Holland in the role of spiderman</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>downloadPolicyIds</strong></td><td>download to go policy ids to be associated with this video</td><td>String</td><td><code>d2gp_3gnld8,d2gp_tLIFnn</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>title.&#x3C;language-code></strong></td><td>The title of the video asset in a specified language (max. 255 characters inc. spaces)</td><td>String</td><td><code>Mi Nuevo Vídeo</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>description.&#x3C;language-code></strong></td><td>The description of the video asset in a specified language (max. 4096 characters inc. spaces)</td><td>String</td><td><code>Descripción de mi nuevo video</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>longDescription.&#x3C;language-code></strong></td><td>The long description of the video asset in a specified language<br>(max. 8192 characters inc. spaces)</td><td>String</td><td><code>Descripción larga de mi nuevo video</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>video.audioDescriptor</strong></td><td>The audio descriptor for video mezzanine files with more than one audio track/language embedded</td><td>String|String <code>language|label</code></td><td><code>en-US|Embedded audio label</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>audio.&#x3C;language-code></strong></td><td>Additive audio file if in another language<br>(the 'label' is made visible to users across the frontend apps)</td><td>String|String<br><code>audioUrl|label</code></td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.wav|Audio description, s3://my-external-bucket/file2.wav|French</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>subtitle.&#x3C;language-code></strong></td><td>Subtitle file for additional languages (the 'label' is for content managers, to reference when in Vesper VOD only)</td><td>String|String<br><code>subtitleFileUrl|label</code> </td><td><code>s3://my-external-bucket/file.srt|SDH subtitles, s3://my-external-bucket/file2.srt|French</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>notificationSettings.release.&#x3C;type></strong></td><td>NotificationSettings for a specific type of Release :  GENERAL, AUDIO, SUBTITLES or PREMIERE</td><td>String</td><td><code>ENABLED</code></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

{% hint style="info" %}
Language codes need to be a valid `ISO 3166-1 alpha-2_ISO 639-1 Code`

\
For column name, where it says \<language-code>, replace with the language code itself e.g. audio.es-ES or subtitle.en-GB

For column name, where it says \<timecode>, replace with the timecode in milliseconds, e.g. annotations.600

\
Today we support 1000 videos per batch. Depending on the size of the video catalogue it can take a day or so to prepare your CSV file.&#x20;
{% endhint %}


---

# Agent Instructions
This documentation is published with GitBook. GitBook is the documentation platform designed so that both humans and AI agents can read, navigate, and reason over technical content effectively. Learn more at gitbook.com.

## Querying This Documentation
If you need additional information that is not directly available in this page, you can query the documentation dynamically by asking a question.

Perform an HTTP GET request on the current page URL with the `ask` query parameter, and the optional `goal` query parameter:

```
GET https://docs.onvesper.com/platform-knowledge-base/dve/batch-video-upload-via-ui/uploading-batch-vods/prepare-your-video-assets.md?ask=<question>&goal=<endgoal>
```

`ask` is the immediate question: it should be specific, self-contained, and written in natural language.
`goal` is optional and describes the broader end goal you are ultimately trying to accomplish on behalf of the user. GitBook uses it to tailor the answer towards what is most useful for that goal.

The response will contain a direct answer to the question and relevant excerpts and sources from the documentation.

Use this mechanism when the answer is not explicitly present in the current page, you need clarification or additional context, or you want to retrieve related documentation sections.
